README.md, before:

# Requirements
* Ansible v2.8 is required on your HOST (provisioner) system.
* You must have `sshpass` installed on your HOST (provisioner) not on the GUEST (machine(s) being provisioned).
* the GUEST machine must be on Ubuntu 20.04 (still oparating on ubuntu 18.04? Contact us, we have a script for that one as well)
* SGX must be enabled in your BIOS

In this tutorial, the development server is focused on. A build server tutorial might follow later.

## Important Notice
Currently, some ansible scripts (such as the munin-node, timezone and keyboard roles) are outdated. These are not necesary for the set up of a sgx machine but are good extra features. They might be updated at a later point of time. If urgently needed, take a look at https://github.com/geerlingguy , up-to-date ansible scripts should be found there.


# Step by Step (Development Server)
There are two different `ansible.yml` files:
1. [BuildServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/BuildServersSGX.yml) : used for continuous build servers, not for active developing. Hence no user and other roles included.
2. [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) : used for development server that support muliple accounts.


* Add your server to the [host variables](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/main/sgx-ansible/host_vars). An example host can be found in [sgx-ansible/host_vars/examplehost.domain-ad.example.ch.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/host_vars/examplehost.domain-ad.example.ch.yml). Set the `ansible_user` and `ansible_host` according to your sgx-server name. Ignore the netplan, munin-node, pkcs12 and nginx information for now. This will only become important when actually setting up these tools, which is not yet supported.
* Install the basic tools on your host system by running the ansible install-tools :
    1. Activate the [role-install-tools](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L19) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
* Install gcc-tools :
    1. Uncomment the [role-andrewrothstein.gcc-toolbox](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L20) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
* Install sgx-driver and sdk:
    1. Activate the [role-intel-sgx](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L22) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
    3. In case the smoke tests have passed: Congratulation: You have successfully set up an sgx machine :) In case they did not, but the script executed without any errors, take a look at here: [Check if sgx is enabled in BIOS](check-if-sgx-is-enabled). If that still does not fix it, create an [issue](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/issues/new) and so we can try to help you out.
* Set up Users:
    1. Save the public key of the user in [sgx-setup/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/main/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys), just like the  [example.users.pub](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys/example.user.pub)
    2. Save the user in the [group_vars](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/group_vars/developmentServersSGX.yml), just like it has been done for the Example User.
    3. Activate the role in [role-singleplatform-eng.users](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L18) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    4. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).


## Ansible Script Execution

This ansible playbook was used to configure the SGX Linux Server.

To execute the playbook, simply execute:
```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i yourhosts -k
```
The option `-k` is used to ask for the connection (SSH) password.

Use the command to only update the host `examplehost*` (recommoended):
```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i sgxhosts -l "examplehost*" -k
```
*List affected hosts and dry-run*
To show which host will be provisioned, execute the upper command with the option `--list-hosts`.

To do a dry-run, execute the upper command with the options `--check --diff`.

# Check if SGX is enabled
Smoke Tests are failing even though sgx driver and sdk have been successfully installed? Then maybe sgx is not enabled in the BIOS.
To check if sgx is enabled in your BIOS you can do the following (only after running the sgx-ansible script)

(Credit for this how-to goes to http://xiangyi.pro/2020/enable-software-controled-sgx-in-ubuntu/)

Inside `linux-sgx/sdk/libcapable/linux/` run: `make` and write & save a script named

`enable_sw_sgx.cpp`
```cpp
#include <stdio.h>
#include "../../../common/inc/sgx_capable.h"

int main()
{
   int is_sgx_capable = 0;
   sgx_device_status_t status;

   sgx_is_capable(&is_sgx_capable);
   printf("is_sgx_capable: %d\n", is_sgx_capable);

   sgx_cap_enable_device(&status);
   printf("status: %d\n", (int)status);

   return 0;
}
```
The functions `sgx_is_capable` and `sgx_cap_enable_device` are declared in `linux-sgx/common/inc/sgx_capable.h` and implemented in `linux-sgx/sdk/libcapable/linux/` (https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx/blob/master/common/inc/sgx_capable.h)

Compile this script by running
```bash
$ gcc enable_sw_sgx.cpp -o enable_sw_sgx -L. -lsgx_capable
$ sudo LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. ./C
```

The output should like:
```bash
$ sudo LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. ./enable_sw_sgx
is_sgx_capable: 1
status: 1
```

The meaning of the output value is listed here:
```cpp
* SGX_ENABLED = 0
* SGX_DISABLED_REBOOT_REQUIRED = 1, /* A reboot is required to finish enabling SGX */
* SGX_DISABLED_LEGACY_OS = 2, /* SGX is disabled and a Software Control Interface is not available to enable it */
* SGX_DISABLED = 3, /* SGX is not enabled on this platform. More details are unavailable. */
* SGX_DISABLED_SCI_AVAILABLE = 4, /* SGX is disabled, but a Software Control Interface is available to enable it */
* SGX_DISABLED_MANUAL_ENABLE = 5, /* SGX is disabled, but can be enabled manually in the BIOS setup */
* SGX_DISABLED_HYPERV_ENABLED = 6, /* Detected an unsupported version of Windows* 10 with Hyper-V enabled */
* SGX_DISABLED_UNSUPPORTED_CPU = 7, /* SGX is not supported by this CPU */
```

Commit message:

add some extra role infos

README.md, after:

# Requirements
* Ansible v2.8 is required on your HOST (provisioner) system.
* You must have `sshpass` installed on your HOST (provisioner) not on the GUEST (machine(s) being provisioned).
* the GUEST machine must be on Ubuntu 20.04 (still oparating on ubuntu 18.04? Contact us, we have a script for that one as well)
* SGX must be enabled in your BIOS

## Important Notice
Currently, some ansible scripts (such as the munin-node, timezone and keyboard roles) are outdated. These are not necesary for the set up of a sgx machine but are good extra features. They might be updated at a later point of time. If urgently needed, take a look at https://github.com/geerlingguy , up-to-date ansible scripts should be found there.


# Step by Step (Development Server)
There are two different `ansible.yml` files:
1. [BuildServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/BuildServersSGX.yml) : used for continuous build servers, not for active developing. Hence no user and other roles included.
2. [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) : used for development server that support muliple accounts.

In this tutorial, the development server is focused on. A build server tutorial might follow later. The following roles are executed:
- `role-install-tools` (installs a basic toolbox necessary to install sgxsdk and driver). The tools that will be installed can be looked at [here](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/add-readme/sgx-ansible/roles/role-install-tools/tasks/main.yml)
- `role-andrewrothstein.gcc-toolbox` (installs gcc, necessary to install sgxsdk and driver)
- `role-intel-sgx`. More information on that one needed? Take a look at its [README](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme/sgx-ansible/roles/role-intel-sgx)
- `role-singleplatform-eng.users` to set up user. Not necessary to actually run a sgx-machine but is recommended in case of multiple users accessing the same machine.

## Steps

* Add your server to the [host variables](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/main/sgx-ansible/host_vars). An example host can be found in [sgx-ansible/host_vars/examplehost.domain-ad.example.ch.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/host_vars/examplehost.domain-ad.example.ch.yml). Set the `ansible_user` and `ansible_host` according to your sgx-server name. Ignore the netplan, munin-node, pkcs12 and nginx information for now. This will only become important when actually setting up these tools, which is not yet supported.
* Install the basic tools on your host system by running the ansible install-tools :
    1. Activate the [role-install-tools](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L19) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
* Install gcc-tools :
    1. Uncomment the [role-andrewrothstein.gcc-toolbox](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L20) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
* Install sgx-driver and sdk:
    1. Activate the [role-intel-sgx](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L22) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    2. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).
    3. In case the smoke tests have passed: Congratulation: You have successfully set up an sgx machine :) In case they did not, but the script executed without any errors, take a look at here: [Check if sgx is enabled in BIOS](check-if-sgx-is-enabled). If that still does not fix it, create an [issue](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/issues/new) and so we can try to help you out.
* Set up Users:
    1. Save the public key of the user in [sgx-setup/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/main/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys), just like the  [example.users.pub](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/files/users/keys/example.user.pub)
    2. Save the user in the [group_vars](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/group_vars/developmentServersSGX.yml), just like it has been done for the Example User.
    3. Activate the role in [role-singleplatform-eng.users](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml#L18) in [DevelopmentServersSGX.yml](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/blob/main/sgx-ansible/DevelopmentServersSGX.yml) (Don't forget to recomment previously executed roles)
    4. Execute the script according to [Ansible Script Execution](https://github.com/integritee-network/sgx-setup/tree/add-readme#ansible-script-execution).


## Ansible Script Execution

This ansible playbook was used to configure the SGX Linux Server.

To execute the playbook, simply execute:
```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i yourhosts -k
```
The option `-k` is used to ask for the connection (SSH) password.

Use the command to only update the host `examplehost*` (recommoended):
```bash
ansible-playbook site.yml -i sgxhosts -l "examplehost*" -k
```
*List affected hosts and dry-run*
To show which host will be provisioned, execute the upper command with the option `--list-hosts`.

To do a dry-run, execute the upper command with the options `--check --diff`.

## Check if SGX is enabled
Smoke Tests are failing even though sgx driver and sdk have been successfully installed? Then maybe sgx is not enabled in the BIOS.
To check if sgx is enabled in your BIOS you can do the following (only after running the sgx-ansible script)

(Credit for this how-to goes to http://xiangyi.pro/2020/enable-software-controled-sgx-in-ubuntu/)

Inside `linux-sgx/sdk/libcapable/linux/` run: `make` and write & save a script named

`enable_sw_sgx.cpp`
```cpp
#include <stdio.h>
#include "../../../common/inc/sgx_capable.h"

int main()
{
   int is_sgx_capable = 0;
   sgx_device_status_t status;

   sgx_is_capable(&is_sgx_capable);
   printf("is_sgx_capable: %d\n", is_sgx_capable);

   sgx_cap_enable_device(&status);
   printf("status: %d\n", (int)status);

   return 0;
}
```
The functions `sgx_is_capable` and `sgx_cap_enable_device` are declared in `linux-sgx/common/inc/sgx_capable.h` and implemented in `linux-sgx/sdk/libcapable/linux/` (https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx/blob/master/common/inc/sgx_capable.h)

Compile this script by running
```bash
$ gcc enable_sw_sgx.cpp -o enable_sw_sgx -L. -lsgx_capable
$ sudo LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. ./C
```

The output should like:
```bash
$ sudo LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. ./enable_sw_sgx
is_sgx_capable: 1
status: 1
```

The meaning of the output value is listed here:
```cpp
* SGX_ENABLED = 0
* SGX_DISABLED_REBOOT_REQUIRED = 1, /* A reboot is required to finish enabling SGX */
* SGX_DISABLED_LEGACY_OS = 2, /* SGX is disabled and a Software Control Interface is not available to enable it */
* SGX_DISABLED = 3, /* SGX is not enabled on this platform. More details are unavailable. */
* SGX_DISABLED_SCI_AVAILABLE = 4, /* SGX is disabled, but a Software Control Interface is available to enable it */
* SGX_DISABLED_MANUAL_ENABLE = 5, /* SGX is disabled, but can be enabled manually in the BIOS setup */
* SGX_DISABLED_HYPERV_ENABLED = 6, /* Detected an unsupported version of Windows* 10 with Hyper-V enabled */
* SGX_DISABLED_UNSUPPORTED_CPU = 7, /* SGX is not supported by this CPU */
```
